Do you want to be loved by others?
Naturally.
We all want to be loved.
Love is a basic human need.
Babies thrive on it.
Teenagers thrive on it.
Marriage mates thrive on it.
Patholites and Gilead students thrive on it.
It makes us happy to be loved.
What about loving others?
Love is unselfish.
Loving others makes the receivers happy,
but it also makes us as givers happy.
Love is the reason why we exist.
Jehovah created us out of unselfish love
to let us share not only life,
but also the privilege to love him.
Jehovah does not need our love since he does not depend on anybody else,
but he appreciates our love.
He loves to be loved by us.
He created us also with the ability to love others besides him.
We love to do good to others.
We love to love them.
Since when does love exist?
It always existed.
It had no beginning.
Why?
Because God is love, and we know God had no beginning.
So God's love had no beginning.
There was no time in the past when God existed, but love did not.
Jehovah not only has love, but he is love personified.
Jehovah created us in his image.
This is why we have the superb privilege to reflect his love.
In the world, books, movies, and songs often deal with love.
But what kind of love?
Usually romantic love, love that often fails.
Genuine love of God and of neighbor is widely lacking today.
When describing the last days the prophecy at 2 Timothy 3 verse 2
has come true that people are often lovers of themselves.
Me isn't meant, egotism is widespread.
One journal carries the title self.
People think, first me, then nothing, and then me again,
and then perhaps somebody else.
In 2 Timothy 3 too Paul also wrote that people would be lovers of money.
In the same prophecy it says the majority would be lovers of pleasures
rather than lovers of God.
For many entertainment and sports have become the dominant aspect of their lives.
Furthermore, first John 2.15 indicates there is a battle between two loves,
love of Jehovah and love of the world.
The stronger our love for Jehovah is, the better we will be able to resist the love of the world.
At Matthew 22.37 Jesus encouraged cultivating love for God to the fullest extent possible.
You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind.
How does love for Jehovah grow?
We must tend to the good soil of our heart where the seed of kingdom truth was sown.
How does love between two persons grow?
One way is by communication.
We communicate with Jehovah through prayer.
Jehovah communicates with us through the Bible and his organization.
If we study the Bible and read it daily as well as attend the congregation meetings,
our love for him will continue to grow.
Love needs to grow.
It is not a matter of how much we know, but how much we love what we know.
Head knowledge is not enough.
There needs to be heart knowledge.
Growing in love is a process, a plant grows when it is watered.
Love grows if it is watered with the water of truth.
In Philippians chapter 1 verse 9, Paul says,
and this is what I continue praying that your love may abound yet more and more.
Love grows gradually.
It is not enough to have a little love.
We should abound in love.
Jehovah sets the example.
He expressed his love by providing the ransom.
In Matthew chapter 18, Jesus compares Jehovah with a king who was willing to forgive
a debt of 60 million dinarii or 10,000 silver talents.
This certainly impresses his love for us.
Jesus expressed his love by being willing to die for our sins.
This stirs our love in return.
The more one has been forgiven, the more one will love.
But love is not dependent on having one sins forgiven.
Jesus loved Jehovah so much but had not a single sin that needed to be forgiven.
But he loved Jehovah and he loved us.
The night before he died, he said at John 1431,
I love the Father.
Do we not all of us feel the same?
How can we demonstrate our love of God in return?
We can do so by serving Jehovah with all our heart.
This includes preaching and teaching.
True or false?
The most important reason for preaching and teaching is love of neighbor.
It sounds good but it is wrong.
The most important motive for preaching is first of all love for Jehovah
and the most important objective is to praise Jehovah.
We want to glorify him and to support the vindication of his sovereignty.
Love of neighbor comes second.
But we also need to show love to our brothers.
In one congregation, several sisters took daily turns to prepare a hot meal for a quadriplegic brother.
This shows that our love extends beyond preaching.
It is like with the parable of the Samaritan who cared for the man that was assaulted and hurt by robbers.
The Samaritan did not preach to the man who fell among the robbers.
He just showed unselfish love to him.
Jesus emphasized that our neighborly love should include even enemies.
In Matthew 5, 44, he said,
I say to you, continue to love your enemies and to pray for those persecuting you.
Our love will be perfect if we love even our enemies.
Jehovah gives sunshine and rain even to wicked opposers.
One publisher went to a hospital to visit an opposing husband.
The man appreciated this kind gesture very much.
Think of what Jesus has endured.
He was hated without cause, persecuted, reviled and murdered.
Help people to develop their appreciation for what Jesus did for us.
Show interested ones that because of the ransom, Jehovah forgives us our sins and opens the way to everlasting life.
When you talk about the ransom, don't do it just in a legalistic way by saying,
see, like on scales, on one side was Adam and on the other side was Jesus.
God's justice required that by giving his life Jesus restored what Adam had lost.
Rather, make the student meditate and develop heart appreciation and love for what Jesus did.
Review with the student what Jesus went through prior to his execution.
Help him picture in his mind how Jesus was flagged, producing clear-roaring ribbons of bleeding flesh.
Help the student sense how Jesus was mocked.
After his tortured beating, soldiers said to him mockingly,
good day, you king of the Jews.
Also, they spit on him and slapped him in the face.
Remind the student how the soldiers later pounded large nails into his hands and into his feet.
With the stakes swung upright, the pain was excruciating for the weight of the body toer all the nail wounds.
Yet, rather than threaten Jesus' prey for the Roman soldiers,
father forgive them for they do not know what they are doing.
Meditating on what Jesus did for us, does this not greatly deepen our love for him?
At Division 319 Paul wrote, the love of the Christ surpasses knowledge.
It is not the love for the Christ, but the love that Jesus displayed that surpasses head knowledge
and strikes a wonderful court in our figurative heart.
Jesus' chorus stimulates a response in us.
As we think about what Christ has done for us, our love for him deepens.
In fact, Second Corinthians 514 says, for the love the Christ has compels us.
After mentioning gifts of the Spirit such as healing and speaking in tongues, Paul explained that 1 Corinthians 1231,
yet I show you a surpassing way.
What is this way? The way of love?
In what way is it surpassing?
In the sense that the gifts of the Spirit, including prophesying, would be done away with.
But love would always be there. Jehovah is eternal. His love will never fail.
Never end, but will continue forever and ever and ever.
Therefore Paul wrote, there remained faith, hope, love, these three.
But the greatest of these is love.
He also wrote, love never fails. Love endures all things.
Many brothers suffered a lot during World War II and today in Russia and other countries.
Today there are a number of governments in the world that suppress the truth.
As we live in the time of the end, this is not surprising to us.
It will get worse as the Great Tribulation comes closer.
World conditions also get worse in many parts of the world, and COVID has claimed many human victims.
But we witnesses keep enduring by pursuing the surpassing way of love that never fails.
We shall not only live forever, but also love forever and be loved forever.